Biswanath Nanda
Senior Solution Consultant

Seeking position as Sales Consultant in which |
can be a major contributor, enhance my skills,
and broaden my areas of expertise. | am
enthusiastic about continuing my experience
and/or advancing to new areas. | have proven my
ability to meet challenges with 6.11 years of
diverse experience, and | am now ready for a
new challenge where we can help enterprise in
making best decisions For better business.

WORK EXPERIENCE

Senior Consultant in Advanced Analytics
,EPM and BI

ING Bank (as a direct employee of HCL
Technologies Netherlands)

06/2018 — Present Amsterdam

Achievements/Tasks
® Working as Solution Consultant in EPM,BI and Analytics
for managing on-boarding and Platform services at ING.

® Developing Hyperion Planning and HPCM modules.

© Working with FP & A team in gathering Functional
requirements for Banking Risk Applications and
developing Hyperion Planning Applications.

© Worked on automating process using DevOps tools.

© Worked on designing reports and visualizations using R
scripting.

© Installation and Configuration on Python 3.7.0

© Preparing Anaplan Models as an enhancement to in-
house budgeting capabilities.

® Designing Analytics dashboard on the top of Finance
Data and helping customers in their Forecast process.

 

biswanath.nanda.ds@gmail.com
+31651126735

297 Mr G Groen van Prinstererlaan Oranjebaan,
Amstelveen 1181 TV, Amsterdam, Nerherlands

@ on K

biswanat.blogspot.in/

linkedin.com/in/biswanath-nanda jn

biswanath.nanda.ds@gmail.com &

SKILLS

HONOUR AWARDS

Platform Specialist of the Quarter by Oracle Senior Vice
President Sales and CSM Hamidou Dia &
Oracle India PVT LTD

Customer Delight award in Oracle Cloud Solutions Hub
Oracle India PVT LTD

Going Extra Mile Award in Oracle Cloud Solution Hub
Oracle India PVT LTD

Manger's Choice Award
IBM India Pvt LTD

LANGUAGES
English @9@eeee

INTERESTS

1OT Active participant in RLE data science academy

Beginner data-science enthusiast in Kaggle.com

Page 1 of 3
WORK EXPERIENCE

Solution Engineer in Sales in EPM, BI and

Analytics at Oracle North America Sales

Cloud Solutions Hub

ORACLE INDIA PVT. LTD.

08/2017 - 06/2018 Bangalore,India

Achievements/Tasks

© Worked as Solution Engineer in Sales and Solution
Development in EPM,BI and Analytics division for
ORACLE North America Cloud Solution Engineering Hub.

© Performed end-to-end configuration and integration of
IOT services, Big data cloud services and OAC Data
visualization to display predictive analytics and machine
learning.

© Worked as key member in preparing proposals to sell
Oracle PaaS and Oracle SaaS products.

© Worked as a Key member in finalising Sales Deals for
Oracle PBCS and Oracle Analytics cloud.

® Worked in developing Regression and binary
classification models using Python.

@ In-depth knowledge in configuring Oracle cloud (PAAS
and SAAS) instance.

© Implemented What if forecast models and integrated the
Essbase data with Data visualization to build predictive
modelling with Essbase data, which helped customer to
analyse the Sales trend.

© Implemented Quality control charts using R and Oracle
Data Visualization desktop.

Package Solution Consultant

IBM India PVT LTD

03/2015 - 07/2017 Kolkata,India

Achievements/Tasks

© Worked as SME and performed Hyperion Planning
application development and administrative activates.

® Worked as a module lead and was responsible For
analyzing and troubleshooting HFM production support
issues.

© Developed Unix shell scripting automation.
© Developed ETL integrations using Oracle Data Integrator.
® Preparing development estimates and write ups.

Systems Engineer

TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES

09/2011 - 03/2015 Kolkata,India

Achievements/Tasks

© worked as a team member and work a single point of
contact For supporting Planning applications, DRM
Applications, HFM application and ODI.

© Responsible For requirement gathering technical and
Functional issue debugging for forecasting planning
applications.

® Designing Forecast models in Hyperion Planning.

CERTIFICATES

Oracle Certified Hyperion Planning Certified
Implementation Specialist.

Page 2 of 3
CERTIFICATES

Oracle Certified Hyperion Financial Management
Implementation specialist.

EDUCATION

Bachelor of Technology in Electronics &
Telecommunication Engineering
Orissa Engineering
College, Bhubaneswar,India
05/2007 - 06/2011

Page 3 of 3
